# FOREWARD

> Meus vitae opera est mea negotium
> Sed mea negotium est non meum vitae

Do you like Latin? I think I do. I don't really know how to read, write or speak it, but this is the age of online translation tools and I thought it would be cool to open a book with Latin. If it's too outdated, mea culpa.

The notion of "work-life balance" is a pretty constant concept throughout this book. Though I'm not sure what it is for me. I've dedicated a lot of time to helping others, sometimes at the expense of relationships or my own well being. I feel pretty fortunate that I've found my purpose so early in life: help good people develop fantastic organizations. I love the academic side of tinkering with the right models, methods and systems to help any business grow. I also get great joy out of working directly with people. So it's easy for me to get wrapped up in my work and forget that outside of my work, my purpose, there is an incredible world of experiences and opportunities.

So why the Latin? To be honest, seeing it scrawled makes me remember what it means, Latin not being something I can easily read. It's a reminder to myself to not let my work overtake my life: "My life's work is my business, but my business is not my life." 

This sounds REALLY counterintuitive for a "business book", right? Isn't it common knowledge that running an organization is time-consuming and demanding, requiring dedication of body, mind and spirit. _'We must do what must be done for the greater good of the company!'_ and all that. 

But how many people do you know that have sacrificed something important to them for the _"good of the company"_ without reward? Most of us are taught to be team players, even if we're the coach. Sacrifice the one to save a few, or the few to save the many. If we have to bend our core values, morals or ethics to get to that next rung on the ladder, by golly we should do it. It's _for the good of the team_. 

At this point I could be talking about sports, war or just pulling random cliches from thousands of movies. So why am I saying all of this to you in the foreward of a "business book"? It's engrained in our culture to accept sacrificing what is most important to us or even others to reach a desireable goal. "This is just the way business is run!" While I agree that reducing staff, wages or other expenses can be necessary during hard times I wonder when it became acceptable to compromise our ethics. Our morals. Our core values. Just to make our profit goals. 

I don't think that compromise is necessary or an effective, sustainable way to run business. I hope you agree. 

If you do, then *_keep reading_*. This book is for you and will help you build a growth-oriented business that can be flexible and lean but still remain true to its core values. The values that you, the entrepreneur want to see your business embody. Still not sure it can be done? Well, let's find out. I believe it can be done in any industry, and that you can do it too. 

However, if you think that profits should trump your personal values or good morals then I would suggest you put this book down and forget you ever read Latin or this foreward. 

Still reading? Good. Let's get started!

Best of luck,

-Matt

P.S. (A big, big thanks go to @PhilGerb who started me on this journey. Up, up and awaaayyyyy...)
