# An Argument for the Competitiveness of Being GoodWhen people believe in something, they get passionate about it. Some go so far as to be fanatical about it. People have even been known to be passionate about the place they work for, and the work they do. Just goes to show that nice people don't always finish last. ### Recommended ReadingThese books and their content are referenced throughout this section and following sections. You don't need to read them, but being familiar with the books and their tools can help give you a deeper understanding of how to use them.* [Outliers - _Malcolm Gladwell_]()* [Servant Leadership - _ _]()* [Galapagos - _Kurt Vonnegut_]()### Resources and ToolsThes are the resources and tools you will need to get started.* 1* 2### Key ConceptsLeanAgileHuman CenteredTriple Bottom LineB Corporations### OutcomesClarify the foundation of the tools outlined in the book so you know how to approach them. You will either know as much as you do about your motivations to run a business or more. You will have an understanding of the basic philosophy that drives modern business growth. If we were ever to meet in person, we would understand each other and be able to talk about business tactics without either of us stopping to explain why we are considering the human or environmental cost of the tactic. All methods are not for all people or situations. Velocity is geared for invididuals and groups seeking growth without sacrificing personal values or ethics. ## Is being good better? Prove it.Authenticity and integrity matter."The good Earth — we could have saved it, but we were too damn cheap and lazy," he wrote in his last book, "A Man Without a Country," published in 2005.* Your ‘group’ extends beyond your company to your family, your community, your country, the world and the environment. * A “group effort” isn’t just a single goal, it is a collection of values, purpose and goals that can drive each decision we make * You believe the concept of “do little/no harm” is something people and business should practice * Doing ‘the right thing’ is usually the more difficult option Most of this section will revolve around making decisions. Oh good! You're still here. Now that you have decided to "stay in Wonderland and see how deep the rabbit hole goes", I think it's important that we get our thinking aligned. So much like Neo in the _"The Matrix"_, you've swallowed the red pill and we can begin tracking your biolectric pattern to save you from the old brain ways of thinking about business AKA "the machines".Before We get into the really fun stuff, I wanted to make sure we were speaking the same language. Like al good philosophers, I want to make you learn a new way to say the things you are already doing. Key concepts - fast
Values to decisions
Values to start
Values to change
Values to grow

Venn diagram between Values and Market Needs

A small disruptive business

Do. We venerate the person in the lunch line that gets a salad while others are getting sandwiches? Then why do we generate the entrrpeneru?

The accidental entrepreneur## What is the mindset of a "good" leader?* Organizations can have a huge positive or negative impact on society ## Servant Leadership, Velocity EditionServant Leadership has been a concept in business since the 1980s. The basic tenant is that the leader sets the direction and then creates and environment that encourages or supports the team to achieve that vision. I think the idea is sound and fosters competition for best practices in human resources, productivity and culture. Although I believe the model itself is a bit outdated, rooted more in academic theory than application. It's a good start, but I think we can improve upon that concept by talking about it in terms of how it is applied. We'll work that out by applying it throughout our tactics in the later chapters.Our more modern interpretation of Servant Leadership will help us frame the mindset for  success in the world we live in today. It will shape a vision of the future, provide a framework to make decisions, connect with people's intrinsic values and inspire true innovation. Let's start by identifying what the job of a servant leader (or any leader) should be. Is it enough to just create an environment that people want to work at? How does each person's "perfect workplace" contribute to the success of the organizationI'd like to provide a definition of what a modern servant leader should do. A modern servant leader should _Provide an environment that makes it easy to be great and hard to hold things back._ The goal of a leader is to provide fertile ground for others to achieve good or great things. For and entrepreneurs and leaders that follow this, you will inspire a team of people to build a vision while building a community. Business owners you provide this environment will reap the rewards of creativity, efficiency and lower costs. Your people will flourish and you along with them.Shouldn't I try to jsutify that somehow? Perhaps you, dear reader want some extra justification for what benefits you will receive by being a modern servant leader.* It will be easier to attract talent because people will _seek you out_ as a preferred place to work* New talent will be aligned with your culture because it is well defined* There will be less turnover as people will want to stay where they are a part of something larger than themselves* Your products and services will be more valuable to your customers because you will have more brains (your entire team) helping to improve things* Customer service will be improved because your team will see that as a necessary part of fulfilling their purpose* Internal communication will be more streamlined because everyone feels they are on the same team* It will be easier to create marketing materials because you won't have to imagine how to present yourselves; you'll be able to tell your story authentically because _it will be true_* Custoemr acquisition will go up because your sales process will be focused on specific custoemrs with a specific value proposition, and your team's energy will help you sell* YOU will get more satisfaction out of your work* You will be able to leave a positive legacy because you are making decisions based on your own values