# Build Your Team
People invested in a common cause will win.

Human beings have great capacity to cause positive change or terrible suffering for ourselves, each other and our world. The scope of what humans have been able to do both in terms of advancement and suffering in just the last 300 years is incredible, and comparing that to the last 3000 years is pretty staggering. But for the sake of talking abotu business, let's first talk that great engine of human creation: war. The military kind, not the song or the band or even the small personal ones we wage. Real, bloody, horrific war.

So... business isn't war. Not really. I do employ tactical thinking to business, but I won't compare business to war. I think it's a little asinine. In war, people actually die. Hundreds, thousands or tens of thousands. If a company folds, the people in it can find new jobs or seek aid. And if you're the owner, you can dissolve the business, address your creditors and move on with your life. Not so for the big losers in war. 

Even with this dispartiy, war and business share similar tactical ideas. Business development is better with good intelligence, a multi-pronged approach that leverages the terrain, being fully aware of the environment, an ability to see patterns/trends and exploit them and a belief that your team will win. Operations/Production/Administration improves with clear communication, accountability, logistical savvy, technology and delegation. Some of these analogies might be a stretch, but one factor remains crucial to the success of the efforts of war and business. 

Morale.

Once soldiers stop believing they can win or that their cause is worthwhile, they lose. If they are freezing and starving, they desert. When they lose faith in their commander, they mutiny. If things get bad enough they might even go over to the competition. When people in a company don't believe their work is useful, they stop caring and productivity and culture suffer. Over time, either scenario results in increased costs, decreased available time, talent recruitment/retention issues and unhappy stakeholders.

Now comes the $64,000 question: _Why are we talking abotu the effect morale has on war and business?_  Because the people on your team have free will. They are your greatest asset and are heavily influenced by company morale. When morale is high people are your greatest asset. When morale is low, people cna be your greatest liability. In the book '_Tribes_' by Dave Logan and John King, it is suggested that real efficiency and regular innovation comes only when teams reach what they calls Level 4 or Level 5. Both of these 'levels' indicate a level of morale where the team believes themselves to be better than any of their competitors or that their competition doesn't matter because they are on some next level ideas. In short, what they feel they are doing is so fantastic that everything else pales in comparison. 

_Isn't this supposed to be a book about scaling purpose and value-driven people?_ Morale is the nexus of confidence, enthusiasm and discipline. Using the methods outlined in this book, you can create a company with a clear purpose, set of guiding values and cultural feel that is able to keep morale high for you and your team.

To determine if you should continue reading this book, please answer teh following question. _In an environemtn where peopel have free will to choose how much they put into something and choose to work for a company, which team will be more productive/efficient?_
* Team A - People performing prescribed tasks, led by the carrot and driven by the stick.
* Team B - People fulfilling a personal purpose, knowing their company supprots them in doing something great.

If you chose Team B, read on. If not, then brace yourself because in 5-10 years your competitors will outpace you.