A good strategy is to think of content in terms of bite (single statement), snack (a summary) and meal (the whole story). 

The whole thing should be less than 500 words.

Here is a good article. Their suggested format is closer to what I have used in the past:
https://zapier.com/blog/effective-case-study/

I put this together in 10 minutes, so it's just a template.
"Alma training program helps us acheive better outcomes." (bite)
"As a social service agency in a state organization, we struggle to help people. It can be difficult to help our clients move forward with government bueracracy, strains of the job and the emotional toll taken on by our program staff. WE needed to do better by our clients and our staff, and Alma Institute is helping us do that." (snack)
(meal is the whole story, below)

The Customer: Begin by putting the spotlight on the customer, not your product.
The Challenge: "What condition was your customer trying to change or improve?" Slaunwhite asks, encouraging the use of a customer quote in this section.
The Journey: Though this section is often skipped, it's worth including, he says. Share the steps the customer took to solve the problem, including other products and services they investigated. "This is the place in the story where the reader begins to identify and empathize," he says.
The Discovery: Tell the how customer found out about your company, teeing up the next part of the case study: how your product solved the customer's problem.
The Solution: It's showtime! "This is where you have unbridled freedom to pitch your product or service without fear of sounding too promotional," Slaunwhite says.
The Implementation: Share how the customer implemented your product or service, including details such as time commitment or obstacles overcome. "Be honest about any problems that arose and how they were resolved," he says.
The Results: Detail how well your product solved the customer's problem with as many specifics as possible. Slaunwhite stresses the use of hard numbers, such as savings, revenue gains, sales growth and return on investment, along with another customer quote. Finally, this is where you summarize and close your story.